♪ [music] ♪
This video is going to
be all about state.
And state, in React, is a pretty core
fundamental concept, so if there's any
videos that you're going to back and watch
a couple of times over,
this is definitely going to be one of
them. State is a representation of all of
the data in our application. Each
component can have it's own state,
and we're going to go into that. However,
you need to think about state as just one
object that holds all of the data related
to a piece of our application or all of
our application. For example, right now, I
have state here, which has a listing of
all of the fishes. And then I also have
state related to my order or how many of
them I have purchased, and then it will
calculate it all. If you are coming from a
background of jQuery, you might be used to
managing your state in your HTML,
meaning that sometimes you'll get
information out of an input and then put
it back in. Or you may save some data in
data attributes. Or you may save some data
in the DOM and pull it out and put it back
in, and back and forth.
Where the application is currently at is
done in the DOM.
With React it's totally different, in that
you store all of your data in this master
object called state, and whenever you want
to change anything on the page,
you edit your state and you let React
handle the HTML for you.
I think that's a big hang-up for people
coming from jQuery and other libraries
like that, where they want to just touch
the HTML directly. But with React,
you edit the data and React will edit the
HTML for you. So case in point here,
if I go to my React DevTools here, this is
the finished one, and I go to my app,
you see that we have the fishes state.
Now, it's going to go fish1 and I'm going
to change that from Pacific to Atlantic,
so I am changing state right now.
I'm not worried about what h3, what class
is on here, and here.
And here you see it's referenced three
times throughout the application.
I'm not worried about updating every
single piece of that. I just changed my
state, which is just an object, and when I
hit enter, you see it's updated it
wherever I have pulled on state. Huge idea
behind React, it's really,
really nice because you don't have to
worry about, where is it happening and
what do I have to update? You've got all
of these balls in the air.
You simply just update state and
everything else that you've modeled out
with your JSX will update.
What we are going to do now is we are
going to create this form right here.
I'm going to call that the "Add Fish"
form, where you put fish name,
you put a price, you put a description,
you put a URL to the image,
and when I click "Add image"...let's try
it. Crabs, it's going to be $50,
it's going to be fresh, it’s going to be
really good. And then we put an image URL
in there, I've got a fishpic1. And when
I add the item... Bam!
It adds it to my state. Again, if I pop
open my DevTools here,
we go to React, we look for our App
component, and you'll see we have state
here. The first fish, that's the fish
right there. This is just a key.
I'll explain that in a second. But there's
"Really good," it's crabs,
it's that much, I can go ahead and add the
crabs to my order. If I were to then
change any of the price as well, it would
be no problem. Everything will be updated
for me.
Cool! That's what you want to do. This
right here, you might think,
"Okay, let's open up Inventory." Actually,
let's go ahead and do that.
First of all, this paragraph should
probably be in the h2 tag,
so we're going to put this here. Well,
we’ve got Inventory...and you might think
we can just pop a form element here.
However, that add fish form,
yeah, it's in Inventory now, but what if I
wanted to put it somewhere else?
It's probably not good just to tie it to
my Inventory directly.
We probably want to make a separate
component for it, so let’s go into our
components folder and we'll make
"AddFishForm.js." Again, just take one of
your other components, paste it in and
replace every instance of that old
component name with the new one, which is
AddFishForm. Cool.
Now, let's just test that it works. We're
going to go into our Inventory component
and I need that AddFishForm, so import
AddFishForm from...there we go.
AddFishForm. Now, if everything has worked
properly, we should now see AddFishForm in
here. Not seeing it. Let me refresh. Not
seeing it. Let's check our console here.
We've got one error here, "Warning
'AddFishForm' is defined but not used."
Oh, what did I do? I didn't use it. I
imported it, but if you want to use it,
you have to pop in a AddFishForm tag. Now,
we said that we can't return two adjacent
elements. Here, I'll show you. I'll save
it and it’ll yell at us for doing two
adjacent elements. Here we go. Adjacent
JSX elements must be wrapped in an
enclosing tag. So what do we do with that?
We give ourselves a div and put the things
that we want inside of there. Good.
AddFishForm is now popping up.
We open our React DevTools, we should see
the AddFishForm element popping up.
We have no standard props in that. But
what we are going to do is go into here,
and we are going to create a form element.
There's going to be no action on that form
element.
And that form will have a class name of
"fish-edit," and inside of this form,
we then need a whole whack of inputs,
right? If we look back at what we have,
we need name, price, status, description,
URL to image, and an add item button.
How does that work? Well, I've got all the
names right here, and I'm just going to
quickly make an input...the type of text
and the placeholder, whatever it is.
Good! We need a button with the type of
"submit," and inside of that we're going
to say, plus "Add Item." Let's see how
we're looking here. Good.
Looks okay, but this fish status should
actually be a select, so we'll do a select
tag instead. I don't need a name or an ID.
Inside of that, we have an option,
which is available, and we'll call that
"Fresh!" We’ll have "unavailable" and that
will be "Sold Out!" We don't need this
here. Save. Fish Price,
looking a little bit funny, what are we
missing here? Oh, description.
We forgot the description. Which is not
input type of text, but is a textarea.
There we go. Name, price, fresh or sold
out, description, image,
and then add item. So that is the form
that we've then filled out.
But when someone clicks this "Add Item,"
we actually want to create a fish object
that takes all of this data and puts it
into an object for us.
For that, what we're going to do is we're
going to make a method here called
"createFish," and that again, is going to
pass in the event. And when somebody
submits this thing, say "onSubmit=" exact
same thing that we did on our Store
Picker, let's take a look at that. On our
Store Picker we said,
"onSubmit= this.goTostore", so "onSubmit=
e.createFish." So when someone submits
that, we're going to go here, and we're
going to call "event.preventDefault" and
let's just "console.log"… “Gonna make some
fish!" Some fish emoji,
let's see here. Tons of fish emojis.
That's a good one.
Where are we at right now? When I go to my
console, add item, “Gonna make some fish!”
Good! Now, the question is, when I type
into one of these boxes or all of them and
hit "Add Item," how do I then take the
text out of these inputs and selects and
textarea, and put it into an object?
Because what I want here is,
I want to make a fish object. And that
fish is going to have a name,
a price, a status, a description, and an
image. So how do I then do that?
How did we do it before? We used refs for
that. So I’m going to go down here and say
input, input, select, textarea, input, and
if we want actual refs for them,
we say, "ref=," and we use an arrow
function in-line here, and that has the
input, then we'll say "this." and then I'm
just going to say, name,
price, status, description, and image,
equals "input". That will allow us to
have...let me comment this out. Let's
double check. Save. I go to my React
DevTools, we're going to find the
"AddFishForm" component, and we're going
to look at it in the console, "$r." If I
open that sucker up, you'll see we've got
image, description, we’ve got all of these
values, references to these inputs here,
on our actual this. So we can go back to
this right here and say,
".this." and the actual name of it,
because that's the name of the input as
well, that's what we did, ".value," right?
Hopefully, that will make us a fish object
if we "console.log" the fish after that.
Go fill this sucker out.
Hi, 1000, Fresh! Testing, fishpic1, and I
add the item. Awesome!
Gonna make a fish! And then it creates us
this nice, tidy little fish object,
which we can then send on over to our
state, so let's look at how we can do that
next.
Now that we have this fish object, how do
we actually get it into our application or
into our state? Now, earlier, I showed you
that the state we are going to use is tied
to our App component. Your state is always
tied to a specific component.
And each component can have its own state.
However, sometimes when a component needs
to share a state with other
components...in our example, we have an
App component, and we're going to need to
share the data with our order,
our Inventory, as well as the listing of
all of the fish here,
right? Because state is referenced here.
It's referenced here.
As well as it's referenced right here. So
what I'm going to do is I'm going to put
my state on our App component, which is
sort of like the parent of all three of
these ones right here. And then we are
going to pass it on down to it.
How do you use state on a React component?
Well, first of all,
we need to do something, it's called "get
initial state." React needs to know what
state you're going to have, what type of
state it's going to be,
and really, what to expect. So what we
need to do is, when this App component
initializes, we need to tell it that we're
going to have a fishes state,
and an order state. And how we do that in
this ES6 class is via a constructor
method. So we used a constructor method
earlier. We just simply add one here.
And inside of this constructor, we first
need to call "super." Again,
we cannot use the keyword "this" until we
call super again because the React
component that we're extending needs to be
initialized first. And then we simply say
"this.state =" and state is one big object
like I told you here.
And inside of that state, we are going to
have our two pieces of state.
So we're going to have the fishes
state...and by the way, don't email me,
that is correct. I know you think fish is
plural, but if you have multiple types of
one fish, it is fishes, so don't email me
giving me heck. Some people actually did
that. And what type is it going to be?
Well, some people might use,
like, an array, and you want to keep your
fishes incremental, or you can use an
object. So for simplicity's sake, I'm
going to be using an object here and our
keys are just going to be based on 1, 2,
3, as well as timestamps.
I'll show you that in a second.
So it's going to be an empty object,
because we’re going to start with no
state, it's going to be empty. And then
we're also going to have an order state,
which is going to be an empty object as
well. If we save that and head back to our
App, and go to our React DevTools, and
find App here, you'll see...ha-ha!
There's our state, it's empty. There's
nothing in there, but we now have our
initial state. Maybe we'll put a little
comment in there. And that is also called
"getinitialState" if you're using the
React create class. However,
this is how you do it with ES6 classes.
It's sort of the way forward.
Now, we've got our fish here in
AddFishForm, and we've got our state here.
How does the fish swim upstream to get to
our "App.js"? Well, first of all,
what we need to do is make a method on our
App called "addFish()",
and that's going to take one argument,
it's going to be fish. And inside of this,
we need to then do a couple of things. We
need to update our state and then we need
to set state. You might think that this is
probably the easiest thing ever because
you just say something like
"this.state.fishes" and maybe like
".fish1 =" and then we'll say "fish"
right? Like, that's it. You update your
object, you move on with your life.
However, with React, it's actually a lot
more complicated than that, and
this is something that I got, like,
really hung-up on when I was first
learning React is when you want to update
state, there's a couple things that we
need to do. First of all,
you can directly update your state by
doing something like this,
"this.state.fishes.fish1 =" the fish that
got passed in. However,
it is a best practice to first take a copy
of your current state,
and then update your actual state. And the
reason, after some research and talking to
a whole bunch of people is that this is
done entirely for performance,
as well as you don't want to accidentally
update a couple state and have a race
condition between other things. So it's a
bit of a run-around to do it,
and I'm just going to leave that there,
because you can do that.
However, what we want to do is first, take
a copy of the state.
And the way that I'm going to do it is I’m
going to say, "const fishes =" and I'm
going to do this, "...this.state.fishes."
Now, what is this? What's going on?
First of all, "this.state.fishes" is our
existing fishes state,
so if I had six fishes in there already,
what that's going to do is we're going to
take each of the fishes from our existing
state and put them into a new one.
Now, this "..." this is a spread, and you
may be familiar with the spread from my
ES6 videos, however, we only have ever
used a spread with an array,
and into a function. But what this will do
is it will take every item from our
object, this is the ES6...or sorry...it’s
not part of ES6, and that’s coming to the
language very soon. It will take every
item from our object and spread it into
this object. So that's a long way of
saying this takes a copy of your existing
state and puts it into this new fishes
state. And then what we'll do is we will
add in our new fish.
Now, if we take a look at our example
here, you'll see, like, this is how I've
named all of our fishes. Fish one through
nine, those are just temporary ones that
we're going to load in some sample fishes
and get those. But whenever we add a new
one, it gives us this seemingly random
number that we have here.
And I'm going to be using a timestamp
here. First of all, a timestamp is going
to be unique, as well as it's going to be
incremental, so every time I add a new one
on, it's going to go to the top of it. You
can use an array and maintain your order
and stuff like that, but really, for
simplicity's sake here, I'm going to be
using a timestamp as the key of the
fishes, so that I can keep adding
additional ones in. So I'll say "fishes,"
square bracket, and I want to say,
like, "[fish-1]," "[fish-2]," "[fish-3],"
however, I need a timestamp for that.
So first, we're going to make a timestamp,
say "const timestamp =,” and then we’ll
say, "Date.now." That will give us...if
you've never used that before,
it's something that's somewhat new to
JavaScript, it will just give you the
timestamp. And this is the number of
milliseconds since January 1st,
1970, something like that. And it's always
going to be unique,
unless you, of course, add two fishes in
the same millisecond.
So we've done that "Date.now," and then we
go back to our fishes,
and we'll say, "fishes," square bracket,
and I'll use backticks,
"[fish-]" and then I'll use the timestamp
in here, equals, and then we pass in that
fish, because what we're going to do is
we're going to take this fish object that
we made here and pass it to this addFish
method here. Fish. So that's the first
part of it. So we have this object of
updated fishes, however,
it's not yet been set to our actual state.
And the way that you do that is you
explicitly tell React which state you
would like to update. So rather than React
watching your huge state object and
anytime you make a change to it,
it will then update your DOM. What we have
to do is we tell React,
"Okay, I updated this piece of state." So
what we do is we say,
"this.setState" and you don't just pass it
your entire state, because you might have
five or six different things in your
state, and React doesn't want to have to
check every single one of them if you, the
developer, know what has changed.
So in our case, what is the one piece that
has changed? We've passed in an object,
it's fishes, right? So we say, the fishes
state has changed, and here is the new
updated state. What is that? We put it in
a variable called fishes.
So the fishes state is updated. Here is an
object full of all of the existing as well
as my new fishes. And what React is going
to then do, any time I make a change to
any one of these, like Crabs is going to
be changed to Fish, any time that happens,
React will find anywhere in the DOM that
you've then used that piece of state,
and it's going to update it. That's what
the whole virtual DOM thing is behind React.
Now, a little thing that we can do here is
in ES6 if you have "fishes:fishes," it
seems a little bit redundant, so you can
actually just pass fishes like that.
And that's the same thing as doing this.
So we've built out this addFish method,
but if we go to our React DevTools and
search for App, and take a look at it and
go back to our console, use our "$r" to
see where we're at. You open it up,
and don't see the addFish method anywhere
on it, and that's because this addFish has
not yet been added to this. So we need to
do it up in our constructor here.
We'll say, "this.addFish =
this.addFish.bind(this).” And that will
bind it to the actual App itself. And if
we React, find our App component here,
now, you will then see that we have our
addFish function added to us.
And we can actually just call it ourselves
if we would want to,
so ".addFish" and you could pass it a name
of "cool" and a price of $50,
let's just try it with those two things.
When I add it, nothing happens,
but if we go back to our React DevTools,
open up our state, ha-ha!
Yes! Look at this, we've got our first
state has been added. So that method,
addFish can be called, you pass it a fish,
and then behind the scenes,
it's going to do all of this, like, sort
of complicated copying the state,
updating it, making a timestamp for all of
that good stuff, etc.etc.
So really the last thing we need to do now
is when someone...at this point,
we have this fish object, how do we swim
upstream? Such a stupid thing to say,
but how do we swim upstream with the fish
to App.js? Well, this is where props
starts to come in. So I have this addFish
function. How do I call it from a child
component? That's a couple levels deep.
Well, the way that we do it is we go to
Inventory, and we’ll just say, “addFish=
this.addFish," so we're passing the
function then on down to Inventory. And
then if we...let me show you now.
We go to our App component and open up our
Inventory component,
and you see that this addFish function has
now been passed down via props.
And then we got to go one level more,
because we have to open up our Inventory
and we have to pass it. So we’ll say,
“addFish =,” and now it's not
“this.addFish," it's "this.props.addFish."
Why? Because the way that you pass things
down, whether it's data or reference to
this addFish function,
is we do that via props. Now, giving that
a save, and if we open up our AddFishForm,
aha! It's now available. Now we can access
this addFish function inside of our
AddFishForm, and all we have to do now is
"this.props.addFish" and we'll pass it our
actual fish. So let's try that and see if
it works. Wes, 100, something,
something, go to our console, add item,
"Gonna make some fish." Now we go back to
our React DevTools, search for App, now
for state, ha-ha! There it is!
Awesome! We just added that actual element
here.
One last thing that we could do is, when
we submit that, we actually want to clear
this form so that it's empty. So we can
put a ref on the form itself, say
"ref=(input)" say, "this.fishForm=input"
and then we'll go up here,
and we'll say, "this.fishForm.reset."
That's just using a regular old JavaScript
reset, so that when I type something in
here, add it, it clears out the fish,
but we also should now have that state in
our fishes. Good! Whew!
That is an introduction to state. We’re
going to be using it a lot more.
We're going to be doing that a few more
times, but it's sort of a fundamental
feature of React, so make sure that that
feels pretty good to you right now.
And then in the next one we're going to
look at how do we load some default state
in and how do we actually get state to
start displaying.